What is Network?
  : A network is a set of devices that are connected with a physical media link. In
  a network, two or more nodes are connected by a physical link or two or more networks
  are connected by one or more nodes. A network is a collection of devices connected to
  each other to allow the sharing of data.
Topologies:
  Star -- Star topology is a network topology in which all the nodes are connected to a single device known as a central device
  Ring -- Ring topology is a network topology in which nodes are exactly connected to two or more nodes and thus, forming a single continuous path for the transmission.
  Bus -- Bus topology is a network topology in which all the nodes are connected to a single cable known as a central cable or bus.
  Mesh -- Mesh topology is a network topology in which all the nodes are individually connected to other nodes.
Bandwidth:
  Bandwidth is defined as the potential of the data that is to be transferred in a specific period of time. It is the data carrying capacity of the network or transmission medium.
VPN:
  a service that creates a secure, encrypted tunnel between your device (computer or smartphone) and the internet
IPv4:
  An IP address represents an Internet Protocol address. A unique address that identifies the device over the network.
  IP addresses are displayed as a set of four digits. The total IP address range ranges from 0.0.0.0 to 255.255.255.255. 
  Example - 192.158.02.252
Http and Https:
  HTTP is the HyperText Transfer Protocol which defines the set of rules and standards on
  how the information can be transmitted on the World Wide Web (WWW). It helps the web browsers 
  and web servers for communication. It is a ‘stateless protocol’ where each command is independent 
  with respect to the previous command. HTTP is an application layer protocol built upon the TCP. It uses port 80 by default.

  HTTPS is the HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure or Secure HTTP. It is an advanced and secured version of HTTP. On top of HTTP,
  SSL/TLS protocol is used to provide security. It enables secure transactions by encrypting the communication
  and also helps identify network servers securely. It uses port 443 by default.

DHCP:
  DHCP is the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol. It is an application layer protocol used to auto-configure
  devices on IP networks enabling them to use the TCP and UDP-based protocols. The DHCP servers auto-assign the
  IPs and other network configurations to the devices individually which enables them to communicate over the IP network.
MAC:
  MAC Addresses are unique 48-bits hardware number of a computer, which is embedded into network card (known as Network Interface Card)
  during the time of manufacturing. MAC is a type of physical address which is used to 
  communicate or transfer the data from one computer to another computer.
Firewall:
  The firewall is a network security system that is used to monitor the incoming and outgoing traffic and blocks the same based
  on the firewall security policies. It acts as a wall between the internet (public network) and the 
  networking devices (a private network). It is either a hardware device, software program, or a combination of both.
  It adds a layer of security to the network.
TCP 3-way Handshake:
  TCP 3-way handshake is a connection establishment process where the client sends SYN, the server responds with SYN-ACK,
  and the client sends ACK. After these three steps, a reliable connection is established,
  which is used in protocols like HTTP, FTP, and SMTP to ensure secure and ordered data transfer.
What Happens when you hit a url:
  When a URL is entered, the browser parses it and performs DNS lookup to get the IP address.
  Then it establishes a TCP connection (and TLS for HTTPS), sends an HTTP request to the server,
  receives a response, and finally renders the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to display the webpage.

  
